# Notes from ReactJS Developer course (w/ Hooks and Redux)

## Setup quick local server to get public server live

npm install -g live -server
live-server <folder_with_html_file> (This will automatically open a tab in browser with you html file).
Ex: live-server public

## Setup ReactJS project manually

npm init to create package.json file to handle project dependencies.

### Folder structure:

public (folder that will be loaded to be serve)

- script (will contain autogenerated files to load into browser. Compiled files from the src folder). These files
  will automatically change when the src folder files are compiled. The app file from the script is the one to be loaded
  in the html file of the public folder throught the div.
  src (Folder with all of our app's logic)

### Configure babeljs to compile the jsx code down to js (ES5).

npm install -g babel-cli
npm install babel-preset-react babel-preset-env

Create div tag that will load all you react app from the ReactDom function inside the body of the index.html
file in public folder.

Create script folder to contain your compiled scripts.

Create app.js file inside script folder which will be update automatically in the future when the src/app.js
file is compiled.

Create src folder at project root level.

Create your app.js file inside src folder which will be your starting point for your react app.

--> To manually compile a file from JSX to ES5 using babel: babel src/app.js --out-file=public/scripts/app.js --presets=env,react

### Create first React component:

**_As of React v18, a warning shows up to use createRoot method instead of render()_**

A React component is an ES6 class that extends from `React.Component`. We are extending from `React` and accessing the class `Component` to access all
of the features provided by a React Component. This Component class requires us to implement the method `render()` which has no arguments and returns jsx.

```JavaScript
class Header extends React.Component {
    render() {
        return <p>This is from Header</p>;
    }
}
```

React enforces that the created components have the first letter in uppercase because that's how React differentiates this component from the normal
html components so it can determine whether is rendering a React Component or an html element. This can be seen when the code for this component is
transpiled to ES6 using Babel and in that code we can see the calls to `React.createElement(Header, null)` instead of `React.createElement('div', null)`
which is how it would normally render an html element.
In this call `React.createElement(Header, null)`, we see how React understands it needs to render the class Header and not just a normal html element.

To render this custom html element we created to the screen, we use the `render(jsx, destination_div)` method provided by `ReactDOM` Object. So the
final code to show the Header component in the web browser is:

```JavaScript
class Header extends React.Component {
    render() {
        return <p>This is from Header</p>;
    }
}

const jsx = (
    <div>
        <h1>Title</h1>
        <Header />
    </div>
);

ReactDOM.render(jsx, document.getElementById('app'));
```

**React Components are reusable so we can add as many `<Header />` tags as we want in there.**

### React component props

Component props are key-value objects that allow us to comunicate/pass data between components. The props we send to a component can have
any name we decide to give them and they are added inline inside the Component's tag where is being called in the code.

```JavaScript
    <Header title="Test value"/>
```

To access this props object inside the component, React allows us to reference it through the `this` keyword which is a current reference
to the component. So, `this.props` will allow us to access the object that has all the props sent to the component.

```JavaScript
    class Header extends React.Component {
        render() {
            this.props;
            return (
                <div>
                    <h1>{this.props.title}</h1>
                    <h2>Put your life in the hands of a computer</h2>
                </div>
            );
        }
    }
```

### JS -this- binding

The keyword `this` references the parent context of where it is located. So for this example:

```JavaScript
const obj = {
    name: 'Vikram',
    getName() {
        return this.name;
    }
}

console.log(obj.getName())
```

The keyword `this` works correctly because it will point to the parent context which in this case is `obj`. But there are cases where the
context is changed and the keyword example above won't work. An example of this is storing the `getName` method as a reference in a function:

```JavaScript
const obj = {
    name: 'Vikram',
    getName() {
        return this.name;
    }
}

const getName = obj.getName;

console.log(getName());
```

For this case, the `this` keyword is undefined because the new parent context is the function `getName` we defined and context is not transfered but
instead is lost in the process.
To not lose this context, we can use the method `bind` which takes as the first argument the object to be binded to `this` of the function.
So to fix the issue in the example above, we can do:

```JavaScript
const getName = obj.getName.bind(obj);
// OR
const getName = obj.getName.bind({ name: 'Andrew' });
```

**In React, when we define a constructor for the class, we do the binding for the function inside the constructor to avoid do it in in every render call**

```JavaScript
class Options extends React.Component {
    constructor(props) {
        super(props);
        this.handleRemoveAll = this.handleRemoveAll.bind(this);
    }

    handleRemoveAll() {
        console.log(this.props.options);
    }

    render() {
        return (
            <div>
                <button onClick={this.handleRemoveAll}>Remove All</button>
                {this.props.options.map(option => <Option key={option} option={option} />)}
            </div>
        );
    }
}
```

### React Component State

It's a key-value pair object that allows our components to manage data and re render the dom based on the changes automatically.
This object can be set initially with a default state and be updated by us using functions. React then will be in charge of
updating the dom with the changes.
To setup the state object, we just create it in the class constructor:

```JavaScript
class Counter extends React.Component {
    constructor(props) {
        super(props);
        this.state = {
            count: 0
        }
    }
```

We can easily access inside the Component by calling it like this `this.state.count`.
To update the state, we don't access it directly and modify it, instead we use the provided function by React `setState` which
takes as an argument a function and returns the modified state object.

```JavaScript
this.setState(() => {
    return {
        count: 1,
    }
})
```

If we need to update an existing value in the state instead of replacing it, we can take as an argument `prevState` which references
the current state before being updated and make the update:

```JavaScript
this.setState((prevState) => {
    return {
        count: prevState.count + 1,
    }
})
```

### React stateless functional component

It's a react component which is a function and doesn't have a state. It's faster than the class component due to not needing to extend
from React but it doesn't have a state or the functions to handle the state. Also, it doesn't have access to `this` or any of
the **life cycle functions**

```JavaScript
const User = (props) => {
    return (
        <div>
            <p>Name: {props.name}</p>
            <p>Age: {props.age}</p>
        </div>
    );
};
```

### React Default props

We can set an object of default props for a component in case we don't receive a prop as an argument like expected.

```JavaScript
ComponentName.defaultProps = {
    propName: 'someValue'
}

const Header = (props) => {
    return (
        <div>
            <h1>{props.title}</h1>
            {props.subtitle && <h2>{props.subtitle}</h2>}
        </div>
    );
}

Header.defaultProps = {
    title: 'Indecision'
}
```

### React life cycle functions

**_As of React v18, a warning shows up to use createRoot method instead of render()_**

These are built in methods that fire at various times in a given components' life. A component has three phases which are:

**_Mounting:_** The methods of this phase are called when the component is created and inserted into the DOM. The methods are:
constructor(), _getDerivedStateFromProps()_, render() and componentDidMount(). They are called in that order when rendering the component.

**_Updating:_** The methods of this phase are called _only_ when the component updates which means when the
props or the state of the component change. The methods are: _getDerivedStateFromProps()_, shouldComponentUpdate(), render()
_getSnapshotBeforeUpdate()_ and componentDidUpdate();

**componentDidUpdate(prevProps, prevState):** . This function takes as arguments **prevProps** which represents the props
object before the change and **prevState** which represents the state before the change.

**_Unmounting:_** The method of this phase is called when a component is removed from the DOM. The method is componentWillUnmount().

Life cycle diagram: https://projects.wojtekmaj.pl/react-lifecycle-methods-diagram/

### React Children prop

The `children` prop allows us to access code sent inside a component definition to use inside that component. So
if I define a stateless component like this:

```JavaScript
const Layout = (props) => {
    return (
        <div>
            <p>header</p>
            {props.children}
            <p>footer</p>
        </div>
    );
};
```

I have access in the props to `children` (This is also available for Class components through `this.props.children`).
The value for children is sent the following way:

```JavaScript
<Layout>
    <div>
        <h1>Page Title</h1>
        <p>This is my page</p>
    </div>
</Layout>
```

`<Layout>` is just an example component I created and whatever is inside the components' definition tags, will be sent inside
the `children` props attribute.

### React Modal

Package that has a customizable modal easy to use and very useful. To install it run `npm install react-modal`.
To use it, we just need to import `import Modal from 'react-modal';` inside the component that will be calling it
and here is an example implementation:

```Javascript
/* The following are some of the basic props that the Modal Component takes:
    isOpen: Takes a boolean that indicates if the modal show be visible or not.

    contentLabel: Allows screen readers to display info about the Modal.

    onRequestClose: Takes in an event handler so the modal can be closed when a user hits the "escape"
    key or clicks outside the modal.

    appElement: Allows you to specify the portion of your app that should be hidden (via aria-hidden )
    to prevent assistive technologies from reading content outside of the content of your modal. You
    can opt-out by adding setting the following prop on Modal: ariaHideApp={false} .
*/
<Modal
    isOpen={!!props.selectedOption}
    contentLabel="Selected Option"
    onRequestClose={props.handleClearSelectedOption}
    appElement={document.getElementById('app')}
  >
    <h3>Selected Option</h3>
    {/* Show p tag only if the user has selected an option */}
    {props.selectedOption && <p>{props.selectedOption}</p>}
    {/* Button to close the modal */}
    <button onClick={props.handleClearSelectedOption}>Okay</button>
  </Modal>
```

### Webpack

Webpack is an asset bundle that will combine the assets of our application (js files and html files) with the assets needed
from third party libraries to run our app. Webpack bundles all these files into one file to be served by the browser.

Install webpack using npm command `npm install webpack`.
Add script in package.json to run webpack `"build": "webpack --watch",`
So our `package.json` file will now look like this:

```JSON
{
  "name": "indecision-app",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "description": "",
  "main": "index.js",
  "scripts": {
    "serve": "live-server public/",
    "build": "webpack --watch",
    "build-babel": "babel src/app.js --out-file=public/scripts/app.js --presets=env,react --watch"
  },
  "author": "",
  "license": "ISC",
  "dependencies": {
    "babel-cli": "^6.26.0",
    "babel-preset-env": "^1.7.0",
    "babel-preset-react": "^6.24.1",
    "live-server": "^1.2.1",
    "webpack": "^5.72.0"
  },
  "devDependencies": {
    "webpack-cli": "^4.9.2"
  }
}
```

**Add webpack config file and add a simple initial setup:**
Create a file named **webpack.config.js**. This file is a Node script.
Add the basic setup to tell webpack which file to grab to bundle and the file (and path) to export the generated bundle

```JavaScript
    const path = require('path');

    module.exports = {
        entry: './src/app.js', // Tells webpack which file to grab to start the bundling process
        output: { // Tells webpack the patch and the name of the output file to create with the bundle.
            path: path.join(__dirname, 'public'),
            filename: 'bundle.js'
        }
    }
```

After runing the `build` command we created in `package.json` file, this will create a file named `bundle.js`
inside the `public` folder. So now, from our initial `folder structure` setup section we can remove the `scripts`
folder and our index file will now look like this:

```HTML
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
    <head>
        <meta charset="UTF-8">
        <title>Indecision App</title>
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="app"></div>
        <script src="/bundle.js"></script>
    </body>
</html>
```

We removed the scripts that imported `react` and also update the script that imported the `app.js` file from
the `scripts` to now grab the `bundle.js` file created by webpack.

_Additional modules to install from babel_
`npm i @babel/preset-react @babel/core @babel/preset-env`

**Webpack Loaders:**
They allow us to tell webpack to process specific files through a process so we can work with the result. So in the
following example, we will tell webpack to transform `.js` files using babel so we can render their code correctly
into the browser:

```JavaScript
// loader
    module: {
        rules: [{
            test: /\.js$/, //files that end in .js
            exclude: /node_modules/,
            use: {
                loader: 'babel-loader',
                options: {
                    presets: ['@babel/preset-react', '@babel/preset-env'],
                },
            }
        }]
    }
// ---- Complete object would be:
module.exports = {
    entry: './src/app.js',
    output: {
        path: path.join(__dirname, 'public'),
        filename: 'bundle.js'
    },
    // loader
    module: {
        rules: [{
            test: /\.js$/, //files that end in .js
            exclude: /node_modules/,
            use: {
                loader: 'babel-loader',
                options: {
                    presets: ['@babel/preset-react', '@babel/preset-env'],
                },
            }
      }]
    }
};
```

This goes inside the `module.exports` object.
Additionally to this setup, babel requires us to tell the presets that will be use during the file transform. We were
setting them before using the command line with the argument `--presets=env,react` but now we can do it with
the `options` attribute inside `use` in `rules`.

_babel-cli allows us to run babel through the command line and the babel-core package allows us to run babel through tools like webpack._

_babel-loader is a webpack plugin that allow us to teach webpack how to run babel when webpack sees certain files._

### New folder structure after adding webpack to project

```
project-name
|_ public
|___ index.html
|___ bundle.js
|_ src
|___ components (this now includes all React components that will be created.)
|___ app.js
```

### Source Maps

Add the following option to the `module.exports` object inside the webpack.config.js file:
`devtool: 'eval-cheap-module-source-map'`
This will allow webpack to point out more precisely where errors are happening when printing on console. Additionally,
there are more alternatives to `eval-cheap-module-source-map` but each one has an increase/decrease performance
on build.

### Webpack dev-server

Switch to DevServer to use a more specialized server to React than using `live-server` which is a more general one.
`npm i webpack-dev-server`
Add the attribute `devServer` to the `module.exports` object in the webpack.config.js file:

```JavaScript
devServer: {
    static: path.join(__dirname, 'public')
}
```

and update package.json script to `"dev-server": "webpack serve --mode=development"` to be able to run the dev server.

**_Also, build script changes to `"build": "webpack --mode production"`_**

### New Class syntax for React Class components - Class Properties Syntax

The **Class Properties Syntax** allows us to remove the need to use a constructor to define the properties of the Class and also
the need to bind `this` to them.

```JavaScript
class OldSyntax {
    constructor() {
        this.name = 'Mike';
    }
}

const oldSyntax = new OldSyntax();
console.log(oldSyntax);

// Prints object --> OldSyntax {name: 'Mike'}

// ----------------------

class NewSyntax {
    name = 'Jen';
}

const newSyntax = new NewSyntax();
console.log(newSyntax);

// Prints object --> NewSyntax {name: 'Mike'}
```

**Now to show the `this` binding change:**

```JavaScript
class OldSyntax {
    constructor() {
        this.name = 'Mike';
    }
    getGreeting() {
        return `Hi. My name is ${this.name}.`;
    }
}

const oldSyntax = new OldSyntax();
console.log(oldSyntax);
console.log(oldSyntax.getGreeting());
const getGreeting = oldSyntax.getGreeting(); // This breaks the "this" binding
console.log(getGreeting); // --> Throws error undefined

// To fix the binding, we would the to call the bind() function inside the constructor
constructor() {
    this.name = 'Mike';
    this.getGreeting = this.getGreeting.bind(this); // Fixes the "this" issue
}

// ------------------------------ Using the Class Properties Syntax:

class NewSyntax {
    name = 'Jen';
    getGreeting = () => {
        return `Hi. My name is ${this.name}.`;
    }
}

const newSyntax = new NewSyntax();
const newGetGreeting = newSyntax.getGreeting();
console.log(newGetGreeting);
```

### Setup Webpack with SCSS

First we need to setup webpack to be able to read our css files and convert it into a js representation. To<br>
do this we install the following packages: `npm install css-loader style-loader`<br>
**css-loader:** Reads our css files and converts them into a js representation.<br>
**style-loader:** Takes the transformed css in the javascript (done by css-loader) and adds it to the DOM by <br>
injecting a `<style>` tag that will get our styles showing up in the browser.<br>

Now we add a new rule to the `webpack.config.js` so webpack uses these loaders when it builds our project and finds<br>
css files:

```Javascript
{
    test: /\.css$/,
    use: ['style-loader', 'css-loader'],
},
// --------- Complete rules object:
rules: [
    {
        test: /\.js$/, //files that end in .js
        exclude: /node_modules/,
        use: {
            loader: 'babel-loader',
            options: {
                presets: ['@babel/preset-react', '@babel/preset-env'],
            },
        },
    },
    {
        test: /\.css$/,
        use: ['style-loader', 'css-loader'],
    },
],
```

Now, to use `scss` we will need to install additional tools: `npm install sass-loader node-sass` and <br>
update our `webpack.config.js` rules. Our css rule will now look like this to handle `.scss` files:

```Javascript
{
    test: /\.s?css$/,
    use: ['style-loader', 'css-loader', 'sass-loader'],
},
```

_The ? in the `test` is to make optional the `s` so webpack can handle `scss` and `css` files._

**SCSS file naming syntax**
Regarding the scss files naming, the entry point file that will load our scss styles will have the name<br>
for example `styles.scss`. But for the files that will contain default styles that should be global <br>
thoughout the project we create a **partial style file** with the following name syntax `_name.scss`. <br>
Partial files are represented in the name with the underscore `_` and they contain certain default styles <br>
that we want to share globally in our app like a font family we want all our app to have. A common example is a file <br>
named `_base.scss`.

**SCSS file import**
Finally to get out styles displaying with our partials we defined, we need to import the partial files we have to our <br>
entry point file that is the one that gets imported into our app.js project file. To do this we import them like this <br>
inside `styles,scss` (_Notice that the underscore is left out in the import_):
`@import './base/base';`

**REM**
The use of REM is preferred due to REM scaling better up/down than pixels do.
By default 1rem = 16px.
To use REM in a base 10 relation, we need to add the following scss rule:

```CSS
html {
    font-size: 62.5%;
}
```

This specific value is added because 16 \* 0.625 = 10. So now 1REM = 10px;

**SCSS folder structure**
We already had a `styles` folder we we were going to add styles. So inside this we create:
styles
|\_base
|_\_\ \_base.scss
|\_components
|_\_\ \_header.scss
|\_styles.scss

The idea is to break out into partials the styles for each component we have in our project and import all those <br>
partials into `styles.scss` which will be loaded by `app.js`. Current file state at this point to introduce basic SCC<br>
into the project:

```SCSS
// ----- styles.css
@import './base/base';
@import './components/header';

// ----- _base.css
html {
    font-size: 62.5%;
}

body {
    font-family: Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif;
    font-size: 1.6rem;
}

// ----- _header.css
.header {
    background: #20222b;
    color: white;
    margin-bottom: 4.8rem;
    padding: 1.6rem 0;
}
 .header__title {
     font-size: 3.2rem;
     margin: 0;
 }

 .header__subtitle {
     color: #a5afd7;
     font-size: 1.6rem;
     font-weight: 500;
     margin: 0;
 }
```

**Normalize.css package**
To reset default values that come with each browser so we don't run into issues with them when setting out specific<br>
css styles, we install this package so it can do the reset for us.
Install `npm install normalize.css` and import `import 'normalize.css/normalize.css';` into `app.js`.

**Adjust viewport of app to be responsive with mobile devices**
To allow the app to dynamically ajust to the device viewport we set the following meta tag inside the `index.html` <br>
file of our proyect `<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">`. With this, we tell the <br>
viewport to use the actual device width. To have a response app it is also needed a good css responsive code that <br>
backs this up. For example, using the `media` tag to apply specific css code based on some condition:

```SCSS
@media (min-width: 45rem) {
    .add-option {
        flex-direction: row;
    }
    .add-option__input {
        margin: 0 $s-size 0 0;
    }
}
```

### ES6 Import/Export

To import a file into another file inside your project we use the statement `import`
` import 'utils.js'`
**Named imports**
To import functions from other files into a file we use named imports:
`import { square } from './utils';`
but to actually be able to import it like that, we need to export it from the file that contains the function
using the `export` statement:
`export { square }`
Or export each function instead:

```JavaScript
export const square = x => x * x;
export const add = (a, b) => a + b;
```

**Default exports**
You can only have 1 default export in your file. To do a default export we just have to have the `as default`
after the function name in the `export` statement:

```JavaScript
export {
    square,
    add,
    substract as default
}
```

To import it, we add the name of the function or whatever name we choose outside of curly braces:
` import substract, { square, add } from 'utils.js'` or ` import anyName, { square, add } from 'utils.js'`.
We can import using the _anyName_ because the export is the default export and js will know which is the default one
since you can only have one.
To do inline exports and use default export, we can use `export default <expression>` to do it:

```JavaScript
export const square = x => x * x;
export const add = (a, b) => a + b;
const substract = (a, b) => a - b;

export default substract;
//OR
export default (a, b) => a - b;
```

It has to be an expression after the `export default` and not a statement because it will generate a syntax error:
`export default const substract = (a, b) => a - b;`
That will generate an error on runtime.

## React-Router

### Initial setup

`npm install react-router-dom` for webapps.
`npm install react-router-native` for native apps.

1. import `import { BrowserRouter, Routes, Route } from 'react-router-dom';` in app.js (for initial testing)
2. Create const with jsx that will contain the routes for your app:

### First use

```JavaScript
const ExpenseDashboardPage = () => ( // Temp functional component created to example.
    <div>
        This is from my dashboard component
    </div>
);
const routes = ( // As of v6, Route element(s) must be wrapped in Routes element and the component is set in the elements prop.
  <BrowserRouter>
    <Routes>
      <Route path="/" element={<ExpenseDashboardPage />} />
      {/* Any additional routes go here..or above */}
    </Routes>
  </BrowserRouter>
);
```

As of v6, the keyword `exact` is not needed to avoid matching routes like `/` and `/create`.

Each `Route` element will represent a route/view in the app. It takes in a `path` and `component` as props.

With out current implementation of devServer, the app won't be able to render the new routes. So we need
to tell the server that we will handle routing via our client side code adding the following configuration:
We add the `historyApiFallback: true` inside `devServer` object in webpack.

```JavaScript
devServer: {
    static: path.join(__dirname, 'public'),
    historyApiFallback: true,
  },
```

So now when we load our webapp, the server will return out html which will load our bundle > which will then load our
`app.js` and then the routes are loaded to be used.

### 404 page

To create a default route, we can do it by adding `*` to the path of a route. As of `v6`, `Routes` component (which replaced
`Switch`) chooses the route based on the best match instead of being reviewed in order. So using `*` will match all routes but
based on new match behaviour, it will act as a default case for when no exact match was found:

```JavaScript
const routes = (
  <BrowserRouter>
    <Routes>
      <Route path="/" element={<ExpenseDashboardPage />} />
      <Route path="/create" element={<AddExpensePage />} />
      <Route path="/edit" element={<EditExpensePage />} />
      <Route path="/help" element={<HelpPage />} />
      <Route path="*" element={<NotFoundPage />} />
    </Routes>
  </BrowserRouter>
);
```

The route with `*` can be first or last, it doesn't matter. The bahaviour will remain the same.

### Render a component in all pages

Add the component to be render before the `<Routes>` component:

```JavaScript
const routes = (
  <BrowserRouter>
    <Header />
    <Routes>
      <Route path="/" element={<ExpenseDashboardPage />} />
      <Route path="/create" element={<AddExpensePage />} />
      <Route path="/edit" element={<EditExpensePage />} />
      <Route path="/help" element={<HelpPage />} />
      <Route path="*" element={<NotFoundPage />} />
    </Routes>
  </BrowserRouter>
);
```

### Folder structure update to add Routes

```
project
└─── public
│   │___ images
│   │   bundle.js
│   │   index.html.js
│
└─── src
│   app.js
└─────── components
└─────── playground
└─────── routers
│           AppRouter.js
└─────── styles
```

```JavaScript
// app.js
import React from 'react';
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom';
import AppRouter from './routers/AppRouter';
import 'normalize.css/normalize.css';
import './styles/styles.scss';

ReactDOM.render(<AppRouter />, document.getElementById('app'));
```

```JavaScript
// AppRouter.js
import React from 'react';
import { BrowserRouter, NavLink, Routes, Route } from 'react-router-dom';
import AddExpensePage from '../components/AddExpensePage';
import EditExpensePage from '../components/EditExpensePage';
import ExpenseDashboardPage from '../components/ExpenseDashboardPage';
import Header from '../components/Header';
import HelpPage from '../components/HelpPage';
import NotFoundPage from '../components/NotFoundPage';

const AppRouter = () => (
  <BrowserRouter>
    <Header />
    <Routes>
      <Route path="/" element={<ExpenseDashboardPage />} />
      <Route path="/create" element={<AddExpensePage />} />
      <Route path="/edit" element={<EditExpensePage />} />
      <Route path="/help" element={<HelpPage />} />
      <Route path="*" element={<NotFoundPage />} />
    </Routes>
  </BrowserRouter>
);

export default AppRouter;
```

### Handle query params

To use dynamic query params in the url of the route, we add them like this:
`<Route path="/edit/:id" element={<EditExpensePage />} />`
To capture the params in component and use them, we grab them use the hook `useParams` like this:

```JavaScript
import React from 'react';
import { useParams } from 'react-router-dom';

const EditExpensePage = () => {
  const params = useParams();
  // It could also be extracted like const { id } = useParams();
  return <div>Editing the expense with id of {params.id}</div>;
};

export default EditExpensePage;
```

### Redux

The Redux store is a state container represented by an object. It allows us to decouple our app by allowing us to have
a global state in our app that our components can use and also helps us to have really reuseable components that don't
need to depend on props from a parent but instead can grab the data needed from the Redux store.

`npm install redux`

To create a Redux store, we import the `createStore` function from redux package and do the following:

```JavaScript
import { legacy_createStore as createStore } from 'redux';

const store = createStore((state = { count: 0 }) => {
    return state;
});
```

This creates a store with a default state object that has the property count at 0 and returns the state.

**Actions**
To update the Redux store values, we need to use actions. Actions is an object that gets sent to the store.
To increment the count value with an action, we would create an object like this:

```JavaScript
{
    type: 'INCREMENT'
}
// The naming convention is all uppercase letters and additional words are concatenated using a bottom line: TWO_WORDS.
```

To send the action to the store, we would use the `dispatch()` function provided by the store:

```JavaScript
store.dispatch({
    type: 'INCREMENT'
});
```

Now, to actually update the the count property we need to tell the store what to do when the action is received:

```JavaScript
import { legacy_createStore as createStore } from 'redux';
// Notice we now added the 'action' parameter to the createStore function.
const store = createStore((state = { count: 0 }, action) => {
  if (action.type === 'INCREMENT') {
    return {
      count: state.count + 1, // We do not replace the state but instead update the received state.
    };
  } else {
    return state;
  }
});
```

To make a cleaner and better scalable code, we use `switch-case` instead of `if`:

```JavaScript
const store = createStore((state = { count: 0 }, action) => {
  switch (action.type) {
    case 'INCREMENT':
      return {
        count: state.count + 1, // We do not replace the state but instead update the received state.
      };
    default:
      return state;
  }
});
```

Example:

```JavaScript
const store = createStore((state = { count: 0 }, action) => {
  switch (action.type) {
    case 'INCREMENT':
      return {
        count: state.count + 1, // We do not replace the state but instead update the received state.
      };
    case 'DECREMENT':
      return {
        count: state.count - 1,
      };
    case 'RESET':
      return {
        count: 0,
      };
    default:
      return state;
  }
});

store.dispatch({
  type: 'INCREMENT',
});
store.dispatch({
  type: 'INCREMENT',
});
store.dispatch({
  type: 'RESET',
});
store.dispatch({
  type: 'DECREMENT',
});

console.log(store.getState()); // This prints: -1
```

**Using subscribe() function:**

```JavaScript
store.subscribe(() => {
  console.log(store.getState());
});

/* Adding this to the previous example, it would print on console:
{count:0}
{count:1}
{count:2}
{count:0}
{count:-1}
*/
```

To unsubcribe to the changes, the subscribe function returns a function to unsubscribe:

```JavaScript
const unsubscribe = store.subscribe(() => {
  console.log(store.getState());
});
unsubscribe();
```

**Send data in actions**

```JavaScript
// The type property is required, always has to be sent and the name is always expected to be "type".
// Additional data can be sent inside this object along with the type property.
store.dispatch({
  type: 'INCREMENT',
  incrementBy: 5,
});

//The store case would be updated to:
case 'INCREMENT':
    const incrementBy =
    typeof action.incrementBy === 'number' ? action.incrementBy : 1;
    return {
        count: state.count + incrementBy,
    };
```

**Actions Generators**

```JavaScript
// Actions Generators
const incrementCount = ({ incrementBy = 1 } = {}) => ({
  type: 'INCREMENT',
  incrementBy,
});

const decrementCount = ({ decrementBy = 1 } = {}) => ({
  type: 'DECREMENT',
  decrementBy,
});

const setCount = ({ count }) => ({
  type: 'SET',
  count,
});

const resetCount = () => ({
  type: 'RESET',
});

const store = createStore((state = { count: 0 }, action) => {
  switch (action.type) {
    case 'INCREMENT':
      return {
        count: state.count + action.incrementBy, // We do not replace the state but instead update the received state.
      };
    case 'DECREMENT':
      return {
        count: state.count - action.decrementBy,
      };
    case 'SET':
      return {
        count: action.count,
      };
    case 'RESET':
      return {
        count: 0,
      };
    default:
      return state;
  }
});

const unsubscribe = store.subscribe(() => {
  console.log(store.getState());
});

store.dispatch(incrementCount({ incrementBy: 5 }));
store.dispatch(incrementCount());

store.dispatch(resetCount());

store.dispatch(decrementCount());
store.dispatch(decrementCount({ decrementBy: 10 }));

store.dispatch(setCount({ count: 101 }));
```

### Redux functions

`createStore(function(state: {}, action))`: Creates a store and uses the function to update and return an updated state.
`getState()`: Returns the current state of the redux store. Ex: `store.getState() -> returns an object {count: 0}`.
`store.dispatch()`: Allows us to send an action to the store.
`store.subscribe(): returns a function to call to unsubscribe`: Allows us to watch changes to the Redux store. It is
useful to take action every time the state changes.

### Reducers

They are functions that take the current state and an action, and return a new state as result.

```JavaScript
// Reducers
// 1. Reducers are pure functions
// 2. Never change state or action.
const countReducer = (state = { count: 0 }, action) => {
  switch (action.type) {
    case 'INCREMENT':
      return {
        count: state.count + action.incrementBy, // We do not replace the state but instead update the received state.
      };
    case 'DECREMENT':
      return {
        count: state.count - action.decrementBy,
      };
    case 'SET':
      return {
        count: action.count,
      };
    case 'RESET':
      return {
        count: 0,
      };
    default:
      return state;
  }
};

const store = createStore(countReducer);
```

### Provider

It allows us to share the store with all the components in out app. To use it, we need to install the `react-redux` package:
`npm i react-redux`
and then import it:
`import { Provider } from 'react-redux';`

The Provider component wraps the Router or the main component and takes in the store as a prop.

```JavaScript
const store = configureStore();

const jsx = (
  <Provider store={store}>
    <AppRouter />
  </Provider>
);

ReactDOM.render(jsx, document.getElementById('app'));
```

To use the store in a component, we need to import `connect` from the `react-redux` package in the component that will use it:
`import { connect } from 'react-redux`.
The connect function will allow the component to "connect" to the store and access the data.

The connect function takes in a function to specify the data that needs to be grabbed from the store and also takes in the
component that will be wrapped and connected to the store:

```JavaScript
import React from 'react';
import { connect } from 'react-redux';

const ExpenseList = props => (
  <div>
    <h1>Expense List</h1>
    {props.expenses.length}
  </div>
);

const mapStateToProps = state => {
  return {
    expenses: state.expenses,
  };
};

const ConnectedExpenseList = connect(mapStateToProps)(ExpenseList);

export default ConnectedExpenseList;
// In a real production code, the export statement is more likely to look like this:
export default connect(mapStateToProps)(ExpenseList);
```

I can use connect without mapping the state to the props in case I don't need anything from the Redux store in the component:

```JavaScript
const ExpenseListItem = ({ dispatch, id, description, amount, createdAt }) => (
  <div>
    <h3>{description}</h3>
    <p>
      {amount} - {createdAt}
    </p>
    <button onClick={() => dispatch(removeExpense({ id }))}>Remove</button>
  </div>
);

export default connect()(ExpenseListItem);
```

Notice I can make dispatch available by adding it in the destructured object and by calling connect with not args.

### Additional Redux Store configurations and Redux Dev tools Chrome Extension

To create the store we use the `createStore` function from the package `redux`:

```JavaScript
import { legacy_createStore as createStore } from 'redux';

const store = configureStore();
```

To add the reducers we will be using in our app, the store allows us to add the reducers through the `configureStore` function:

```JavaScript
import { legacy_createStore as createStore, combineReducers } from 'redux';

const store = configureStore(reducerFunction);

// or for more than one reducer function
const store = createStore(
    combineReducers({
      expenses: expensesReducer,
      filters: filtersReducer,
    }),
  );
```

To connect the Redux store with the Redux chrome extension for debugging purposes, we need to add the following line that is
specified in the chrome extension's docs: https://github.com/reduxjs/redux-devtools/tree/main/extension#installation
`window.__REDUX_DEVTOOLS_EXTENSION__ && window.__REDUX_DEVTOOLS_EXTENSION__()` as an argument to `createStore`:

```JavaScript
import { legacy_createStore as createStore, combineReducers } from 'redux';

const store = configureStore(reducerFunction);

// or for more than one reducer function
const store = createStore(
  combineReducers({
    expenses: expensesReducer,
    filters: filtersReducer,
  }),
  window.__REDUX_DEVTOOLS_EXTENSION__ && window.__REDUX_DEVTOOLS_EXTENSION__()
);
```

As of React 18, createStore function has been deprecated and now we have to use `configureStore()`. This functions is similar
to `createStore` where it still takes as the first argument the reducers to be used in the app.
There are two ways to set the Reducers:

```JavaScript
import { legacy_createStore as createStore, combineReducers } from 'redux';

// Send reducers as a key-value object where the value is the reducer function. This will use combineReducers under the table.
const store = configureStore({
  expenses: expensesReducer,
  filters: filtersReducer,
});
// Use combineReducers function
const store = createStore(
  combineReducers({
    expenses: expensesReducer,
    filters: filtersReducer,
  }),
);
```

### Destructuring

```Javascript
//
// Object Destructuring
//

const person = {
  name: 'Andrew',
  age: 26,
  location: {
    city: 'Philadelphia',
    temp: 92,
  },
};

// Combines renaming with default value.
const { name: firstName = 'Anonymous', age } = person;
console.log(`${firstName} is ${age}`);

const { city, temp: temperature } = person.location;
if (city && temperature) {
  console.log(`It's ${temperature} in ${city}.`);
}

const book = {
  title: 'Ego is the Enemy',
  author: 'Ryan Holiday',
  publisher: {
    name: 'Penguin',
  },
};

const { name: publisherName = 'Self-Published' } = book.publisher;
console.log(publisherName); // Penguin - Self-Published

//
// Array Destructuring
//

const address = [
  '1299 S Juniper Street',
  'Philadelphia',
  'Pensylvania',
  '19147',
];
// Ignores the first item and the last one.
const [, city, state = 'New York'] = address;
console.log(`You are in ${city} ${state}.`);

const item = ['Coffee (hot)', '$2.00', '$2.50', '$2.75'];

const [itemName, , mediumPrice] = item;

console.log(`A medium ${itemName} costs ${mediumPrice}`);
```

### Higher Order Component (HOC)

A component (HOC) that renders another component.
Purpose:
To reuse code
Render hijacking:
Prop manipulation:
Add Abstract state:

Example:

```JavaScript
import React from 'react';
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom';

const Info = props => (
  <div>
    <h1>Info</h1>
    <p>The info is: {props.info}</p>
  </div>
);

const withAdminWarning = WrappedComponent => {
  return props => (
    <div>
      <p>This is private info. Please don't share!</p>
      <WrappedComponent {...props} />
    </div>
  );
};

const AdminInfo = withAdminWarning(Info); // withAdminWarning wraps Info and returns the new component

ReactDOM.render(
  <AdminInfo info="These are the details" />,
  document.getElementById('app')
);

// ** Props are passed to the HOC and then passed again by destructuring (in this example) to the component that needs them.
```

## React 18 Hooks

### useSelector

The useSelector hook allows us to access the Redux store in a functional component without the need of using `connect()()`:

```JavaScript
const expenses = useSelector(state => state.expenses);
```

### useDispatch

The useDispatch hook gives us access to the dispatch function in a functional component without the need of using `connect()()`:

### useNavigate

To redirect a user to another page we don't use `history.push()` anymore. Instead, we use the hook `useNavigate` from
`react-router-dom` package:

```JavaScript
import { useNavigate } from 'react-router-dom';

const navigate = useNavigate();
navigate('/');
```

### Example:

```JavaScript
import React from 'react';
import { useNavigate, useParams } from 'react-router-dom';
import { useDispatch, useSelector } from 'react-redux';
import ExpenseForm from './ExpenseForm';
import { editExpense } from '../actions/expenses';

const EditExpensePage = () => {
  // Get Expense array from the store
  const expenses = useSelector(state => state.expenses);
  // Get id from the params
  const { id } = useParams();
  // Find the expense that matches the id
  const expense = expenses.find(expense => expense.id === id);
  // Grab dispatch function
  const dispatch = useDispatch();
  // Set navigate function to redirect after submit
  const navigate = useNavigate();

  return (
    <div>
      <ExpenseForm
        expense={expense}
        onSubmit={expense => {
          dispatch(editExpense(id, expense));
          navigate('/');
        }}
      />
    </div>
  );
};

export default EditExpensePage;
```

## Testing Section

### Setting up Jest

Jest website is `https://jestjs.io/`
To install Jest, we use the command: `npm install --save-dev jest`

**Basic configuration steps:**

1. Add to `package.json` the following script: `"test": "jest"`. This will allow us to run Jest for the first time and
   it should display an output that says that no tests were found (Which is expected).
2. Update folder structure inside `src` to now have a folder named `tests`.
3. Create you first test file with the following naming convention: `testName.test.js`. Notice the `.test` part, this is
   important because Jest searches for that part when scanning your project for test files to run.
4. Add a test by using the `test()` function.
5. configure Jest with Babel to transform `jsx` files to Javascript so it can read them by creating a `babel.config.js` file
   with the following configuration:

```JavaScript
module.exports = {
  presets: ['@babel/preset-env', '@babel/preset-react'],
  plugins: ['@babel/plugin-proposal-class-properties'],
};
```

It can also be a `.babelrc` file which will have the following content instead:

```JavaScript
{
    "presets": [
        "@babel/preset-env",
        "@babel/preset-react"
    ],
    "plugins": ["@babel/plugin-proposal-class-properties"]
}
```

```JavaScript
// Takes in a string which is the description of the test and a function which has the logic of the test.
test('Should add two numbers', () => { });
```

Basic Example:

```JavaScript
const add = (a, b) => a + b;

test('Should add two numbers', () => {
  const result = add(3, 4);
  expect(result).toBe(7);
});
```

**Jest gives us access to certain functions and keywords globally.**
Some of these are: `test(testDescription: string, function)`, `expect(valueToValidate)` (more info here: https://jestjs.io/docs/expect),

**The --watchAll allows us to see live updates in the console when working on our tests**
It can be added to the package.json script like `"test": "jest --watchAll"` or
it can be ran directly in the console like `npm run test -- --watchAll`.
_The `--` tells the console that the args that come next belong to the script and not to npm_

### Testing components using react-test-renderer

Unlinke functions, to test a components behaviour we would need to render it and validate that everything is working correcty.
Since we are not doing this on the browser but instead on code, we would need to use the `react-test-renderer` package to get
this done.
To install it we run: `npm install react-test-renderer`.

**Depending on what you are testing, then the import would change like this:**
`import ReactShallowRenderer from 'react-test-renderer/shallow';`: To test what is being rendered and not user inputs or lifecycle functions.
ShallowRenderer will only render the given component.

FullDomRendering renders child components

**To test snapshot views, we can use the following code from react-test-renderer package combined with Jest**:
`renderer.getRenderOutput()` gives us the rendered output of the component.
`.toMatchSnapshot()` Creates a snapshot of the rendered component the first time the test is run. After this,
everytime the test runs, the rendered output will be compared to the existing snapshot. This will also create a folder of
snapshots in the test folder.

Example:

```JavaScript
test('Should render Header correctly: ', () => {
  const renderer = new ReactShallowRenderer();
  renderer.render(<Header />);
  expect(renderer.getRenderOutput()).toMatchSnapshot();
});
```

**For more details on this, the course required to use Enzyme but this library appears to not work with React 17 or 18 yet and probably is dead as mentioned by it's creator (August 7 2022) https://dev.to/wojtekmaj/enzyme-is-dead-now-what-ekl**

## App Deployment

1. Setup GIT in the project.
2. Setup Github repo: Create github account and then create a new repository.
3. Setup ssh keys:
   To check for existing ssh for a project `ls -a ~/.ssh`. If none exist, then:
   - Run `ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 4096 -C "email address here"` to create an ssh key if none exists.
   - Run `eval "$(ssh-agent -s)"` to make sure the ssh agent is running. If it's not running, it will start it up.
   - Run `ssh-add ~/.ssh/id_rsa` to add the new key.
   - Check `https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/connecting-to-github-with-ssh/adding-a-new-ssh-key-to-your-github-account`
   to see steps to copy pub file to clipboard and then into github in Settings > SSH and GPG Keys. Steps to copy change based on OS.
   - `ssh -T git@github.com` validates if the secure connection to github and ssh key was correctly setup.
4. Now, copy the ssh url for the new repo created in github and run `git remote add origin ssh_repo_url` to let git now where our code
   is going to live in.

### Git commands

**Git changed the name of the base branch from master to main**

- `git init`: Create a new git repo.
- `git status`: View the changes to your project code.
- `git add`: Add files to staging area
- `git commit`: Creates a new commit with files from staging area.
- `git log`: View recent commits.
- `git remote`
- `git remote -v`
- `git push -u origin branch`: For the first time push. After that, the `-u` is not needed anymore.
